[MUSIC PLAYING]
SURMA: The web of 2006 was a
roller coaster to work with.
jQuery was made to even
out the lumpy platform
the web offered and made
cross-browser development
easier.
It did such a great job that
it was not only widely adopted
by developers, but even
browser vendors were convinced
by the usefulness of these
APIs, and they started
shipping some of them natively.
Let's look at an example.
Arguably, the most
well-known feature of jQuery
was the ability to find
elements with a CSS selector.
Here, we are looking
for a div that
has the username class on it.
This functionality proved to be
so useful that browsers brought
it to the platform under
the name of querySelector
and querySelector All.
You can use querySelector
in all browsers
including into the Explorer 8.
And here's a little fun fact.
Because so many
developers are used
to jQuery's total notation, it
is even supported by dev tools.
Neat.
As you can see, jQuery
had a lot of influence
over the shape of the web.
And we will talk some more about
that in the future episodes.
So if you're interested,
you should really
subscribe to this channel.
But in the meantime, why not
watch some older "Supercharged"
with this button.